# psortm_commandline_docker

### PSORTm
PSORTm is a bioinformatics tool for predicting subcellular 
localization for a given set of protein sequences. The program has 
been designed to encourage analysis of metagenomic sequence sets 
containing archaea and bacteria of mixed or unknown Gram stain.

The entered set of sequences (required in FASTA format) is initially 
divided into bacteria of different Gram stains, archaea and sequences 
where organism type cannot be determined so that each set of sequences 
will receive more accurate localization predictions.

Sequence sets of mixed organism and Gram stains must be provided along 
with an additional taxonomic classification file to aid the sorting of 
the sequences. This file must be in csv format (reas, name or read, taxonomy-id), 
and can be generated by various programs such as Megan 6. See test input files for examples.

PSORTm is based on PSORTb version 3, with modifications.

### Repository contents

This repository hosts a Docker buildfile (Dockerfile) for the complex environment of psortm.
It also contains a wrapper script (psortm) to run psortm inside the container.

Warning: Users of this psortm app must have admin rights to run docker commands. Either that 
or an administrator must give you access to run "docker run" commands.

## Pre-built Docker image
A pre-built image created by the Dockerfile in this repository can be 
found at https://hub.docker.com/r/brinkmanlab/psortm_commandline/

### Building this app
You can build the Docker image yourself using the following instructions. 
This build requires a unix-type system and 3.9GB space. 
```
% git clone https://github.com/brinkmanlab/psortm_commandline_docker.git
% cd psortm_commandline_docker
% sudo docker build --rm --no-cache -t psortm_commandline_docker .
```

### Running a PSORTm analysis
Once the Docker image has been installed, run PSORTm like this:
```
% cd psortm_commandline_docker
% ./psortm -h
```

Warning: Users of this psortm app must have admin rights to run docker commands. Either that 
or an administrator must give you access to run "docker run" commands.

```
% ./psortm -i <FASTA format sequence file> \
-t <comma-separated taxonomic classification file> \
-r <local results directory>
```
The taxonomic classification file must contain taxonomic classifications for all the 
sequences provided in comma-separated format. This file can be generated in a program 
such as MEGAN6.

### Example Input Data
The following example PSORTm input files are available for download. These compressed files contain sequence files and MEGAN-generated taxonomy files:
- [Windows ZIP file (242KB)](http://www.psort.org/download/psortm_example_input.zip)
- [Unix tar.gz file (62KB)](http://www.psort.org/download/psortm_example_input.tar.gz)

### License
PSORTm is distributed under [GNU General Public License Version 3](https://github.com/brinkmanlab/psortm-docker/blob/master/LICENSE).

### Support
Please email any questions to psort-mail@sfu.ca

This application was developed by Gemma Hoad in the Brinkman Laboratory at Simon Fraser University, Greater Vancouver, Canada.





